7.12 Synthetics Docs Changes (#431)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/synthetics-quickstart.asciidoc

[discrete]
[[synthetics-quickstart-step-one]]
== Step 1: Pull the latest synthetics docker image

Elastic Synthetics is regularly updated during this experimental phase, even within the same version.
You'll want to ensure you're running the latest docker image by running the below command.{synthetics-image}

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker pull {synthetics-image}
----

[discrete]
[[synthetics-quickstart-step-two]]

> == Step 2: Create a heartbeat.yml configuration file

Reviewer: Doesn't this need to be `heartbeat.docker.yml`?

> == Step 2: Create a heartbeat.yml configuration file

Reviewer: Doesn't this need to be `heartbeat.docker.yml`?

There are two ways to configure a synthetic test.
Let's take a quick look at each.

Run an inline test::

If you're running an inline browser based test, you can use the traditional Heartbeat flow to completely

> configure your synthetic testing directly in a file named `heartbeat.yml` as shown below. 

Reviewer: Doesn't this need to be `heartbeat.docker.yml`?

Author: No, I've intentionally simplified everything to `heartbeat.yml`, we now make no reference to `run.sh` etc.

You'll need to setup your elasticsearch credentials for either an https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/heartbeat/current/configure-cloud-id.html[Elastic Cloud ID] or another https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/heartbeat/current/elasticsearch-output.html[Elasticsearch Cluster] in
the `heartbeat.yml` file. The example below demonstrates using https://cloud.elastic.co[Elastic Cloud] credentials.

[source,yml]
----
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: browser
  id: my-monitor <1>
  name: My Monitor
  schedule: "@every 1m"
  source:
    inline:

>       script: |- <2>

Reviewer: Is the `|-` still needed?

Author: Yes, that syntax lets you use multiline strings in yaml

        step("load homepage", async () => {
            await page.goto('https://www.elastic.co');
        });
        step("hover over products menu", async () => {
            await page.hover('css=[data-nav-item=products]');
        });
----
<1> Each `monitor` gets its own ID in the {uptime-app} and, therefore its own schedule entry.
This allows tests to be run in parallel and analyzed separately.
<2> In this example, a synthetic test is defined inline. This is a two-step script that first loads
a homepage and then hovers over a product menu. See <<synthetics-syntax>> for more information.

Run a test suite::

If you'd like to run multiple tests, you'd probably be better off creating a library of tests defined
outside of `heartbeat.docker.yml`.
This, for example, allows your tests to live with your application or in a separate Git repository.

[source,yml]
----
- name: Todos
  id: todos
  type: browser
  schedule: "@every 1m"
  source:
    local:

>       path: "/opt/examples/todos" <1>

Reviewer: I don't think this path inside the container matches the path in the volume mount in the `docker run` below

----

> <1> In this example, our library of synthetic tests come from https://github.com/elastic/synthetics/tree/master/examples/todos[our todos example]. The path shown here corresponds to the path heartbeat will look at inside the docker container.

Reviewer: Might be worth calling out how this relates to the configuration, something along the lines:

> ...as defined with the `--volume` parameter to `docker run` as shown below

Author: Improved in the latest changes

[discrete]
[[synthetics-quickstart-step-one]]
== Step 1: Pull the latest synthetics docker image

Elastic Synthetics is regularly updated during this experimental phase, even within the same version.

> You'll want to ensure you're running the latest docker image by running the below command.{synthetics-image}

Reviewer 2: Was the use of the `{synthetics-image}` attribute accidental?

<img width="759" alt="Screen Shot 2021-03-22 at 1 24 17 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5618806/112053727-e9e90700-8b11-11eb-83bf-a5d3b1529230.png">

Author: No, I thought it'd be helpful to have a shortcut there.

Author: Actually, now that I think of it, is there a variable we can just use for heartbeat?

Reviewer 2: I'm still not quite sure what this accomplishes?

<img width="616" alt="Screen Shot 2021-03-22 at 1 43 46 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5618806/112055893-a0e68200-8b14-11eb-8251-9ff830b67599.png">

Reviewer 2: The usage in the code block makes sense

Reviewer 2: > Actually, now that I think of it, is there a variable we can just use for heartbeat?

There's `{heartbeat}` for Heartbeat.

Author: Switched to using that except for code where I think the literal value (which must be lowercase too) makes more sense

        });
        step("hover over products menu", async () => {
            await page.hover('css=[data-nav-item=products]');
        });
- name: Todos
  id: todos
  type: browser
  schedule: "@every 1m"
  source:
    local: <3>
      path: "/opt/todos" <4>
----
<1> Each `monitor` gets its own ID in the {uptime-app} and, therefore its own schedule entry.
This allows tests to be run in parallel and analyzed separately.
<2> In this example, a synthetic test is defined inline. This is a two-step script that first loads
a homepage and then hovers over a product menu. See <<synthetics-syntax>> for more information.
<3> In this example, our library of synthetic tests come from https://github.com/elastic/synthetics/tree/master/examples/todos[our todos example]. The path shown here corresponds to the path {heartbeat} will look at inside the docker container.
<4> Note that this path is local to the docker container, not the host system. You can have the todos files anywhere you like on the host, and map them to `/opt/todos` in the container.

[discrete]
[[synthetics-quickstart-step-three]]
== Step 3: Run the container, connecting it to Elasticsearch

> Before we proceed, you'll need to retrieve your Elasticsearch credentials for either an https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/heartbeat/current/configure-cloud-id.html[Elastic Cloud ID] or another https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/heartbeat/current/elasticsearch-output.html[Elasticsearch Cluster].

Reviewer 2: Ahh, sorry, there's a heartbeat ref for links too :)

```suggestion
Before we proceed, you'll need to retrieve your Elasticsearch credentials for either an {heartbeat-ref}/configure-cloud-id.html[Elastic Cloud ID] or another {heartbeat-ref}/elasticsearch-output.html[Elasticsearch Cluster].
```

monitor in heartbeat to enable sandboxing. This may require using a https://github.com/elastic/synthetics/blob/master/examples/docker/seccomp_profile.json[custom seccomp policy] with docker, which brings its own additional risks. This is generally safe when run against sites whose content you trust,
and with a recent version of Elastic synthetics and chromium.

The example below, run from the `examples/todos` directory shows how to run synthetics tests indexing data into Elasticsearch.

Run the script below to start running your synthetics tests. You'll need to insert your actual `cloud.id` and `cloud.auth` values to successfully index data to your cluster.

// NOTE: We do NOT use <1> references in the below example, because they create whitespace after the trailing \
// when copied into a shell, which creates mysterious errors when copy and pasting!
[source,sh,subs="+attributes"]
----
docker run \
  --rm \
  --name=heartbeat \
  --user=heartbeat \

>   --volume="$PWD/heartbeat.yml:/usr/share/heartbeat/heartbeat.yml:ro" \

Reviewer 3: Would be good to mention that PWD corresponds to `todos` folder.

Reviewer 3: Just saw the comment from the top, taking it back.

  --volume="$PWD:/opt/todos:ro" \
  {synthetics-image} heartbeat -e \
  -E cloud.id=cloud-id \
  -E cloud.auth=elastic:cloud-pass
----

If you aren't using {ecloud}, replace `-E cloud.id` and `-E cloud.auth` with your Elasticsearch hosts,
username, and password:

[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker run \
  --rm \
  --name=heartbeat \
  --user=heartbeat \
  --volume="$PWD/heartbeat.yml:/usr/share/heartbeat/heartbeat.yml:ro" \
  --volume="$PWD:/opt/todos:ro" \
  {synthetics-image} heartbeat -e \
  -E output.elasticsearch.hosts=["localhost:9200"] \
  -E output.elasticsearch.username=elastic \
  -E output.elasticsearch.password=changeme
----

> Note the two `--volume` options which mount local directories into the container. The first mounts the `heartbeat.yml` file you've configured,
> into the expected location for `heartbeat.yml` for heartbeat, the second mounts the suite into the VM in the same location listed in the `source`
> section of our `heartbeat.yml`.

Reviewer 2: I'm struggling to parse the long second sentence. What about something like this?

```suggestion
Note the two `--volume` options, which mount local directories into the container. The first mounts the `heartbeat.yml` file configured above,
into Heartbeat's expected location for `heartbeat.yml`. The second mounts the test suite into the VM in the same location listed in the `source`
section of our `heartbeat.yml`.
```
